everybody welcome to another episode of
AMA live I am here to answer your
questions so be sure to drop those bad
boys in and if this is adding value to
your life please do share it that would
be amazing and today's episode is
brought to you by everything is my fault
which you can find like a Sesame Street
episode you can find at shop impact
Theory comm check it out if you want a
self signal to yourself and empower
yourself to do something amazing alright
we're gonna dive right in first question
is from anatolia Manuel from the connect
inbox which by the way if you want to
submit your questions ahead of time you
can do that to connect at impact Theory
dot-com all right I'm a single mother
and want nothing more than to be able to
provide for my daughter I'm torn between
studying something that will help others
or help my family profit there's a lot
of other details but I'm gonna stop
there
so this is a classic conundrum that a
lot of people are struggling with and it
comes in a lot of different forms from
mother or father is sick and do I give
up my career to go take care of them and
here's the reality there is power in
being selfish the truth of the matter is
you have one life to live and if you
really want deep and lasting fulfillment
if you want to make the absolute most of
this life I'm telling you right now
there is one formula for that and it
goes like this it is what the ancient
Greeks called techne the human-animal is
designed to adapt and grow because of
that nature has given a pleasure
response to doing the things that
actually get us to adapt and grow so
that we can conquer our environment and
that is learning is intensely
pleasurable now it needs to be learning
something that you actually care about
and this is where it all comes back to
technique technique is about gaining a
set of skills that was very hard to
acquire and is unique to you but is in
service of other people and it's that
combination of things it is something
you're deeply interested in it is
something that you fan the flames of
until it really becomes a passion and it
is something that was hard to acquire
but becomes a set of skills that is
unique to you now the expression of
those skills the use of those skills in
service of other people is the thing
that's going to light you on fire
so the
great news here is the answer to your
question to live a life that is going to
be fulfilling to you is going to help
other people but if you just lead with
oh I want to go do something for other
people you will find yourself in a
nightmare scenario where you're not able
to take very good care of them because
you haven't spent the time to acquire a
skill set that is actually useful to
other people and on top of that you
won't be fulfilled yourself and when
you're not fulfilled you don't have the
energy that you're going to need to do
the hard things to take care of the
people that you love the most
so when I look at my own life and I look
at the truth of the statement that's
often often attributed to Mother Teresa
but may or may not actually be a mother
Teresa quote is people will not act for
the many but they will act for the one
so look when you're assessing what
skillset you want to acquire first and
foremost it needs to be selfish it needs
to be something that you're interested
in because in that selfish love passion
excitement for that thing you're gonna
have the energy to actually develop a
skill set that'll be useable to other
people now if you can find the areas of
overlap where it's also something that's
going to serve your family whatever that
may be and you talked about your father
having a construction business if I'm
not mistaken but you want to become a
lawyer yes so you're talking about
potentially going and working for a
non-profit to be a lawyer but that's not
necessarily gonna give you what you want
to help your family so the question is
why do you want to become a non-profit
lawyer and if you can work backwards
from what it what is it in that that
you're trying to do so if it's just
helping people the real question to ask
is is helping people as a non-profit the
way that's going to utilize most
powerfully the skill set that you want
to build and then will it help a great
number of people and quite frankly is it
going to leave your family isolated so I
think that you're going to have to take
into consideration all those different
things so finding the area of overlap
where you're doing things like I'm
guessing it doesn't take a lot to
provide the kinds of resources to your
family that you want this isn't like
where you have to become a millionaire
so the question is if laws interesting
to you and you want to be able to take
care of your family but you also want to
be able to help people what's the
balance in that so if becoming a lawyer
is really the thing that's exciting for
you a you can work somewhere that
making the kind of money that you're
gonna need to take care of yourself and
your family but also allows you to do
pro bono work so if I was in this exact
situation what I would do is I would
become the lawyer that I want to become
if that's the thing that's really
driving me I'm really passionate about
that but I would find a law firm that is
actually going to help me or going to
allow me and in fact encouraged me to
take pro bono work which many law firms
do so Peter Diamandis has a law and he
says when given an option between two
things take both so when given an option
between doing something for yourself and
doing something for your family do both
alright next question is from Michelle
Kelly ah P Amato how do you take an idea
and put it into action I am so great
with ideas but freeze when it comes to
getting started
I actually just recorded some Alexa
content around this and there's in it I
broke down the four things you really
need to do to get started let's see if I
can remember them off the top my head
number one start small I normally hate
when people talk about baby steps but
the reality is what paralyzes a lot of
people from taking action is they're
looking at the entire universe of what
they're trying to accomplish and it is
over whelming and because there's so
many pieces of that puzzle you don't
know or understand when you're trying to
wrap your head around and really figure
out how you go from where you are to the
very end of the puzzle it actually is
paralyzing in the sense you don't have
the skill set you don't even have the
understanding there are many many things
you're not even aware enough about so
even though that may be the goal that
gets you excited and motivated don't get
lost in all of the steps along the way
just figure out what is the very first
step so if you want to be a professional
dancer don't worry about what it takes
to go on tour with you know Justin
Timberlake and this upcoming album go
take a dance class and figure out
whether or not you actually are going to
enjoy it enough to continue to pursue it
to that point just that simple step
alright next it needs to be something
that's number two it needs to be
something that is exciting for you if
you don't have the excitement this is
why take that small first step that baby
step just to see if you enjoyed it if
you don't enjoy the very first step
chances are that you're not going to
enjoy the entire process and there's
something called whoop w 200p whish
outcome obstacle plan so wish what is
your wish
but outcome don't let it stay in the
realm of like magic fairy land
the actual outcome that you want from
that wish so I want to be rich and
famous okay
what is the outcome you're actually
looking for is do you want to be a
business person do you want to be an
actor like what is that actual thing how
are you going to make that wish come
true very very specific concrete path to
that okay once we have that what's the
obstacle that stands between your
outcome and where you are today so once
you identify that then you come up with
a plan when you look at the wo o P all
together how does it make you feel in
your gut if it terrifies you then
chances are that this isn't something
that you have the excitement for you're
gonna be willing to push through the
difficulty of that obstacle part to
actually execute on your plan if on the
other hand when you look at whoop and
you think whoa the steps that I actually
have to go through some going back to
the first question if the thought of
becoming a lawyer sounds like torture to
you that is not the path that you want
to march down but if you look at
something like being a professional
gamer for instance random but an example
that I use all the time because this is
often the thing that people dismiss and
say well I could never do that but if
when you think about what you would have
to do to become a professional gamer
that the path the the stretch of
difficulty in the middle of actually
acquiring the skill something
interesting to you lights you on fire
gets you excited then that's gonna give
you the energy that you need to keep
pushing through so a lot of this just
comes down to what is the thing that
gives you the energy and so that's
really the aim of whoomp is to figure
out which of those things is going to
give you that level of excitement okay
number three man I really thought I was
gonna pull this off with the the three
things taking action let me just now
make it up on the spot those are the
first two things that's really important
oh I do remember so the next thing
you're gonna want to enlist a friend so
this is a big deal because when you
enlist somebody that has expectations
that you're actually going to show up
chances are way more likely that you're
actually going to show up so that's a
really big deal get other people that
are going to reinforce his behavior you
guys have heard it said a thousand times
that you want to find or you're the
average of the five people that you
spend the most time with so part of what
makes that so powerful isn't just the
way they think it's that they're holding
you accountable to the things you said
you were going to do and then for the
last thing is you want to make sure that
you are leveraging identity actually
tying your ident
to the outcome so once you've gone and
engaged with it in some way you've taken
that first step you realize you have
excitement you've looked at woop you're
super amped up you've got somebody else
that's gonna engage this with you you
want to start telling anybody and
everybody who will listen that you're
gonna do that so I'm the type of person
that is willing to become the personal
dancer or profile personal dancer to
become a professional dancer so whatever
that thing is using that phrase I'm the
type of person that I'm the type of
person that will put in the work to do
this then once you're committed to that
you've been reinforcing it in yourself
you want to tell the world at large that
you're going to do that I'm gonna become
a professional dancer you do all of
those things not only you're gonna find
out if you have the energy but you're
gonna have the accountability to go
through all right so that's how you take
that first action go with that okay
question from Olga Alvarado how can I
find how can I find my true passion you
said no question is off-limits
if I find that when someone is very
successful the one thing you must have
is passion true passion for whatever
that may be but if you are 100 years old
and still don't know what your passion
is how to figure it out okay so the
question is the age-old question the
question I get asked the most how do I
find my passion so the awesome news is
this is a step-by-step process and it
goes exactly like this if this is a
burning question for you and you're
driving pull over write this down
because following these steps is
actually gonna get you where you want to
go so it begins with identifying an area
of interest to do that you need to
encounter a whole bunch of things so go
do a lot of things and right now inside
of you is probably a vague direction
that you want to go in
so start encountering things in that
arena so harkening back to the first
question if it's law go intern at a law
firm and see if you actually enjoy being
around that is that a world that you
actually want to be in before you end up
going to law school or go take an online
law class and see if that's something
that lights you on fire but find some
way to engage in that thing and engage
in a breadth of things if it all humanly
possible so that you really find out
which of those things you want now once
you find something that interest you
you're gonna really engage with it so if
it's you do the online law course let's
say and then you go into a full-blown
summer internship or something like that
in a law firm to see if you really like
it and that day after day after day
engagement you're gonna see if your
energy levels are going up or going down
assuming that they're going up now we've
identified a fascination once you have
something that is a fascination now
you're going to go through the process
of gaining mastery in that thing and it
is in the process of gaining mastery
you'll figure out whether or not this is
something that become can become a real
passion now to make these transitions
happen you've got to be Fanning these
flames so when you go into the law
office chances are the day to day is
gonna be met and you've got to decide
whether or not you're going to allow
yourself to get excited not allowed that
you're going to encourage that you're
going to remind yourself that you're
gonna pick up you're gonna remind
yourself to get excited you're gonna
pick up on some one small thing so let's
say that thing is there's a particular
case where somebody is I'll just use
Jared Adam somebody who was on impact
theory was wrongly convicted turns
himself into a lawyer comes out and
decides that he's gonna help other
people do exactly the same thing right
incredibly interesting I love that story
so if I write a law firm and I saw that
they had a case it was something like
that where they were trying to get an
innocent man off I would say holy hell
like this is really fast I'm literally
saying this to myself as a way to amp
myself up and this is something that I
think people don't do enough you need to
cultivate in yourself an excitability
you need to be able to get excited about
things and in the beginning you're being
your own hype man and it's gonna feel a
little bit fake but you need to do that
in order to actually get yourself
excited and so that you're feeding that
that neuro chemistry into yourself so
that you're actually getting worked up
you want to work yourself up now there's
a really fascinating thing that happens
from a neurological perspective where if
you get amped up and this is true by the
way whether you're getting angry whether
you're getting sad whether you're
getting happy frustrated falling in love
whatever the case may be when you force
yourself into a neurological state
you're giving your brain the signal that
it's worthy of this state so then your
brain retro actively goes back and goes
wow that was a really big deal this was
something that I learned in my marriage
realizing that when I allowed myself to
get really frustrated my mind would
actually then paint back onto whatever
started that argument that yeah it was
really worth going that hard and so like
this really minor thing that from the
outside seems stupid to you
you justifies no no no that was really
important that was worth getting that
hyped up now flip it use that on the
positive when you see that thing in this
area of engagement if you want to turn
it into a fascination then you need to
start amping yourself up about it oh man
this is really exciting you need to go
tell the others the story to other
people you need to be excited as you
tell the story all of this is
reinforcing in yourself that this is
actually something worthy of excitement
all of a sudden you're gonna find well
like I was kind of just hyping myself up
before but I actually really am hyped up
now and so when that fascination
solidifies that's when you go down the
process of gaining true mastery and you
need the energy and passion to get
through the process of gaining mastery
often times mastery involves a lot of
boredom it involves a lot of overcoming
obstacle after obstacle you've got to
have a lot of tenacity and that's gonna
be born of that compelling future that
you see where once you have that set of
skills that you're gonna be able to use
to tell but the people and that it's
enriching your life I mean all of those
things that are getting you amped up you
fan those flames and that's how it
becomes a real passion but it is a
process it is a process it is something
that you're doing very cognitively
you're thinking about it you're making
choices all along the way the first
choice to engage the second choice to
fan the flames and the final choice to
actually go down the process of and the
words I use are becoming the best in the
world if you're not prepared to become
the best in the world at this if
becoming the best in the world isn't
exciting to you actually thinking about
what it would be like to be the greatest
of all time at the thing that you're
pursuing if that's not exciting then
that's not the path but that's how you
create a passion there it is alright
next up this is from vince Nance what do
you think is the most destructive or
dangerous thought process that someone
can engage in okay so I'm gonna take a
step slightly to the right on this one
because it's on my mind I was creating
more Alexa content around this which by
the way if you guys aren't watching if
you have an Alexa an Amazon echo or any
one of the Alexa pieces of hardware
subscribe to my daily briefing I'm
putting a lot of energy into this and
it's become the beginning of the funnel
for me where I'll think of these short
little concepts I'll spend I'll do a 90
second piece of content around which you
can listen to daily on the Amazon Alexa
and then from that like it really starts
putting
on my mind so one of the things I was
thinking about that's super dangerous
that people don't even realize they're
doing is you have these invisible
beliefs and one of the pieces of content
coming up in the next on a week that I
just recorded this morning was about
asking yourself like there's certain
questions that you can ask yourself I
came up with four again like if I can
remember them off the top my head let's
see so number one the first to come from
Einstein the first one being ask
yourself to really identify these
beliefs that are invisible and by the
way the reason that they're invisible is
because you just assume that they're
true like you've never stopped to think
about the fact that at some point you
chose to believe this and that that was
a choice and that there really there is
no objectively true answer to a lot of
these things so again the first to come
from Einstein number one is do you live
in a friendly or hostile universe and
Einstein said that was the single most
important decision and I love that he
called it a decision it's a single most
important decision that any human being
will ever make
so you just decide is the universe
working for you or against you okay
number two is everything a miracle or is
nothing a miracle
again there's no objective truth to that
you just need to decide like when you
look outside at even the snow right and
the cold and think about the passing of
the seasons and how spring will
rejuvenate everything like is that a
miracle to you or is it you just look
outside and it's [__] cold and you
want anything to do with the cold and so
it just sucks right those are both
choices
number three yeah I don't remember off
the top of my head what the other
questions are but identifying what those
beliefs are in your life that you just
take for granted is insanely important
and I'll give you one that I didn't put
on the list because it was too cheesy
but it's actually really really true and
that's do you see the glass as half
empty or half full this is again it's a
choice you simply decide and whether to
be optimistic or pessimistic will color
the entire rest of your life
so really going through and looking at
the invisible beliefs that you have
because those invisible beliefs are
controlling your life and they are the
most empowering are the most dangerous
things you can engage in alright from a
thought process perspective alright next
question is from doctor
Jack Callahan do you describe do you
subscribe to the idea of Tai Lopez's
four pillars for good life of health
wealth love and happiness or do you have
your own version let's think through
those health fresh ways wealth yeah I
mean I think wealth is as long as your
basic needs are being met that becomes
more of a personal thing love and
happiness yeah I so I think of it
slightly differently so here's how I
think of it I think that people should
be focused on a life of fulfillment
now fulfillment is made up of things and
many of those things are in that list
right there health being a massive one
of those I think wealth is a lot more
personal so I think that there are monks
out in the world who have totally issued
anything worldly and I think that their
life is just fine and I would guess if
they really loved that pursuit of
enlightenment or whatever word they use
to capture it that that they are deeply
fulfilled by that especially if they're
helping other people for me however
being ambitious and having grand things
that I want to make come true in my life
wealth is very important to me because
it's the great facilitator but it all
depends on what you're trying to
accomplish so coming up with something
Universal the only thing I can think of
that's Universal is going to be a
neurochemical state and the easiest way
to sum up the best long-term
neurochemical state because it allows
for struggle suffering all of that is
fulfillment because I actually think
fulfillment is born out of suffering
it's not born out of a momentary
happiness so there you have it so I
don't think ty is crazy for that I think
man those four are gonna speak to a lot
a lot of people and they're certainly
gonna speak to the people that resonate
with him and I my gut is that those are
entirely true for him I just don't think
that they're all universal okay next
question is from Louis Zamudio this is
from Facebook what is one advice that no
one told you but that you learned in the
process of becoming successful this is
my big one
lean in you've heard me talk about this
a lot and if it hasn't sunk in hopefully
this will be that lightning rod moment
what you build your self-esteem around
matters and it matters more than almost
anything else in your life if you build
your self-esteem around being
right being smart being good being
valuable any of those things you are
setting yourself up for tremendous
failure you need to build your
self-esteem around something that is
anti fragile by that I mean something
that the more you attack it the stronger
it gets you also need to build your
self-esteem around something that is
always moving you towards your goals so
if you think about building yourself
esteem around being right
it doesn't always move you towards your
goal because sometimes being right which
is gonna make you feel good actually
isn't the right thing to move you
towards your goal so that was certainly
the thing that created the moment of
crisis in myself that let me realize
that that's what I was doing so once I
realized that holy hell like here I have
my goals on one hand and I have the
desire to feel good about myself on the
other and they're not mutually they're
not always anyway mutually compatible so
I need to give one of them up and then
thinking through that I realized that
doesn't make any sense because people
who no longer feel good about themselves
and believe that they'll never feel good
about themselves again they commit
suicide so that's like a pretty
important thing I would say in people's
lives to have something that makes you
feel good about who you are and on the
other hand a very goal-oriented so I do
want to accomplish this so I thought
well the only option I have is to build
goals that always speak to my fragile
ego which doesn't seem to make sense
because it was fragile because I was
priding myself and being smart and I was
constantly encounter with people who
were smarter than me or being right and
I was wrong more than I was right
so I decided to switch my self-esteem to
being the learner and being willing to
admit when I was wrong that then I
didn't have the words at the time but
that I began to realize once I read in
the same Talib's book is the only anti
fragile way to think and on top of that
it's the only way that I can that I can
think of to think that is always going
to move you towards your goals because
if you're always willing to admit when
you're wrong you have the barometer by
which to judge right or wrong which is
it moves me towards my goals or it does
not so if your barometer is hey this
either moves me towards my goals or it
doesn't and you're always willing to
admit when you're wrong and you're
always willing to learn from other
people because you're the learner like
suddenly it's everything about yourself
and going back to that notion that we
started this off with there is power and
being selfish so if you're selfishly
wanting to make yourself feel good about
who you are and
self-esteem is built around being humble
always listening always learning always
being willing to admit when you're wrong
now suddenly the most selfish act you
could do is be humble the most selfish
thing you could do is listen to somebody
else the most selfish thing that you
could do is acquire new skills or admit
when you're wrong or realize that you
have an inadequacy and to stare at that
inadequacy it this is a very long answer
because this is very important it is the
single most powerful thing that you can
do in terms of changing the way that you
think all right next question is from
Nick Perez hi Tom how do I deal with
people who make passive-aggressive
comments at work how do i balance being
kind but not overly nice to the point of
where I'm being taken advantage of okay
here's the reality I'm gonna put myself
in your shoes and I've actually done
this and I've done this a lot and at
times it has bitten me in the ass so
you're gonna have to follow me through
follow my logic to decide whether or not
you want to do this so first and
foremost I believe in principles which
is truth is the highest thing principle
not coming up the great word there so
read Ray Dalio book principles in that
he talks about if you're really goal
oriented you need to know the truth at
all times at all costs and even if that
means taking on something that's very
hard to hear so because that's my
highest value then I'm going to live by
that first and foremost so I'm going to
make sure that I'm not being
passive-aggressive that I'm not doing
stupid [__] that I prove to people time
and time again that I'm willing to have
somebody point out something about
myself to always be brutally honest with
me that basically there's no reason to
be passive-aggressive that you can tell
me the truth but if I haven't created
that space where somebody can just tell
me what they really think so that they
don't need to be passive-aggressive I
can't blame them for not being able to
just directly confront me so first and
foremost lead by example make sure
people understand that the principles
are all I care about that I want to know
the truth that I welcome that that I
don't bite back if somebody tells me
something that's true even when it hurts
and by the way if you really want to
welcome people to telling you the truth
in your life you've got to get to the
point even if they're doing it to be a
dick that you welcome that with open
arms that you really want to hear it now
of course it sucks when people are being
a dick and they're saying something to
be
hurtful but if you rebuff the way that
they say it which by the way they will
stop doing it that way over time we'll
explain how in a second but first you've
got to be willing to take it however it
comes ok now once I've established that
if somebody gives me a remark like that
I'm gonna say that makes me feel like
you're being passive-aggressive I'm just
gonna call it out but I'm gonna own that
maybe I'm wrong and so that ideally if
it's happening around other people I'm
gonna ask them hey this is how that
makes me feel but I'd like to know if
I'm crazy or not and that way people get
a chance to either say yes no or stay
silent right and if they stay silent
then it's like okay I get it like this
is a very uncomfortable thing but like
please understand that truth is my
highest priority and I would actually
walk people through that now that's what
you're doing when you're not the boss
ideally I would encourage you to find a
company that deploys some version of
this because trying to do this as a
grassroots measure in a company that
doesn't reinforce that is going to be a
nightmare so the truth is that I would
really try to get out of that now if
you're in a company and this is how I'll
explain why the person is gonna stop
being passive-aggressive over time if
you're in a company where that's
rewarded and you're leading by example
and it really is like a part of who you
are when you call that person out and
people give feedback now they're going
to see either that they are being
passive-aggressive or you're gonna
realize that you're wrong and that
you're miss reading it either one's
great it's a win because you're getting
to the truth so getting to that truth
always calling people out and stuff like
that but not in a jerky way but just
saying hey this is how it makes me feel
I'd like to get other people's feedback
and that's how you do it and we actually
do that here at impact theory it is
[__] amazing it sounds crazy I get it
and when we first started doing it even
I was like oh god is this gonna work
it's amazing
it is life-altering and I wish for
everybody that you could work in a
company that prides themselves on
getting to the truth in all things that
nobody thinks that they're above the law
that nobody comes the table assuming
that they're right and that everybody
knows that on some things are credible
and on other things are not now
according to Ray Dalio I don't have
enough experience with this to vouch for
it or not it seems true but he says
about 30 percent of the world just can't
get on board with it so there you have
it you're inevitably going to encounter
people that just can't ever get behind
that
I wouldn't let them work here so that is
that's just the truth anybody that's not
into the truth it's not my friend so
there you have it all right next
question is from Mary Jessa and Facebook
how can you motivate someone who admits
he she does not have a goal in life
how can you handle the fact that your
image of success is being overshadowed
by someone who does not have the same
ideals and vision like you how can you
handle the fact that your image of
success being overshadowed so let's take
these are two very different questions
okay so how can you motivate someone who
admits he she does not have a goal in
life you don't and I want to be
abundantly clear and right now the image
in my mind even though I've never seen
it it's Rocky Horror Picture Show when
this question is answered I want to know
that I could aim the mic at the crowd
and you guys would all say in unison you
don't you don't motivate other people
the whole idea you've got to find people
that are self-motivated you've got to
find people that they have that in them
I'm not in the game of trying to change
people so if you think of the matrix my
favorite metaphor ever at the end of the
day you've got to give people a choice
red pill blue pill if they choose to
take the blue pill and go back to the
matrix and continue a life that has no
goals that's for sure man that is their
choice and I don't pass moral judgment
on that if that's the life that they
want to live that is absolutely awesome
I have nothing to offer them I cannot
help them or be useful
I will seem crazy to them without
question because I'm falling over myself
to take a pill that wakes me up in the
real world so that I can see the truth
and really understand what I'm like what
skills I have what skills I don't have
and be able to improve them and actually
accomplish my goal all right don't
scroll off I need to see the second part
of that question so that's the first
part second part how do you handle the
fact that your image of success is being
overshadowed by someone who does not
have the same ideals and vision like you
I don't understand what that means
actually so I'll answer it what I
thought you were asking was how do you
deal with somebody who's outshining you
[Music]
like easily like they don't have some
big vision that they were chasing that's
what I thought you were saying so let's
just answer that since I understand that
question this is one of those things
that's insanely frustrating so I will
talk about weight loss my wife who
outworks me in the gym without question
every single day the woman is a beast
but before she got into that routine I
remember saying to her you don't put out
a fat as easily as I do we would go on
vacation and we would cheat on our diets
and we would she would match me calorie
for calorie now I'm twice her size she
would match me calorie for calorie and
wouldn't put on weight and I would which
essentially means I'm eating half of
what she's eating and putting on fat
she's eating twice what I'm eating and
not putting on fat and I remember being
really frustrated by that but the thing
is that's the reality that's the truth
and I can sit there and lament that my
wife has better genetics and I or I can
accept that that's the reality and that
to get the result that I want I have to
do different things now spending my time
being frustrated is not going to help me
it is not going to move me forward so
someone outshining me and doing it
easily without the level of effort that
I have to put in it may be unfair but
what the [__] does that matter
that is not going to help me so wasting
even an ounce of energy lamenting that
is an ounce of energy that I'm not
putting towards actually accomplishing
my goals so you just got to deal with it
the world is not fair but you can
accomplish anything that you're willing
to pay the price to accomplish so just
focus on that and crush it next question
Jalen Holmes hey Tom I was wondering if
you could explain the meaning behind the
saying on your t-shirt Thanks I can and
thank you for asking which by the way if
you're just joining us this is one of
the impact Theory special shirts which
you can find a shop that impact the
recom it's all about self signaling
reminding yourself of an important idea
that you want to be reminded of and
today everything is my fault now this is
the notion of taking extreme ownership
in your life it is the thing that will
change your life 100% so once you decide
that you can learn anything you set your
mind to and the being incompetent is an
in permanent state that at any time you
could choose to allocate your time and
energy to that thing and get good at it
that's gonna free you up from riah from
not wanting to accept the truth about
where your skill set really is because
when you believe that accepting
something like that is a permanent
sentence and that failing means you're a
failure being bad at something means
you're forever bad at that once you
realize you can change it then all of a
sudden that weight of recognizing
staring at your inadequacies and
accepting you're not yet good at that
thing like you can
move forward and getting good at that so
I remind myself that my life is not
reflective of my circumstances it is
reflective entirely of the choices that
I've made so the things that I have not
managed to succeed at in life those
aren't some other things fault it's not
the economy it's not the way that I was
raised it's not my genetics it's the
result of the things that I've chosen to
get good at period so the story that I
always tell is if my wife were killed by
a meteorite I would not blame fate luck
divine providence
anything like that I would blame myself
why because I know that there's actually
a group of people that tracked what are
called near-earth objects they're trying
to find some way a nuclear explosion
lasers whatever the case is gonna be to
knock that thing off course I know they
exist I've never sent them an idea I've
never sent the money I've never sent
them even encouraging words now I think
that that's smart I think the likelihood
of my wife being killed by a meteorite
is virtually zero so spending my time
and energy there does not make sense but
if I end up being wrong about that my
wife is killed by a meteorite I'm not
gonna blame meteorite now once you're
willing to take that level of ownership
in your life and say I'm making me money
at my job that I'm making because of
choices I have made instead of blaming
the economy instead of blaming the
generation before you or whatever and
you just own I can make different
choices and get a different result and
here like I'll just any Millennials out
there I will just promise you right now
let's just assume that you were dealt
the shittiest hand of all time what the
[__] does that matter how is that gonna
help you there will be millionaires and
billionaires self-made in your
generation so the question is why not
you and the answer is because you
haven't decided to get those skills
period end of story
and once you're willing to accept that
regardless of how the deck is stacked
against you you can either be mone that
or do something about it my advice do
something about it no matter how hard it
may be if you care enough about it go
make it happen all right that's the
shirt next question is from Carolina
Wilk from Facebook how often do you
catch yourself on the foot on the
following on following the invisible
beliefs and how often do you ask
questions to yourself about your daily
activities so I used to catch myself
with disempowering invisible beliefs
all the time I'm talking 20 times a day
it was ridiculous as I began to really
adopt a growth mindset
I saw how often how insidious those
invisible beliefs are because I was
finally aware of them and then once
you're aware of them you see them
everywhere it was insanity I don't see
that much anymore every now and then
there's stuff where it's like oh wow
like I can't believe even I went
pessimistic on that in fact there was
something that happened recently it was
a failure of principles so a failure of
imagination for me when I was at Quest I
didn't think that you could structure
the organization entirely around truth
it it didn't even occur to me that you
could hold people to that standard that
every time someone was
passive-aggressive or every time
somebody said something that wasn't true
or when somebody just failed that you
could just call them out in a very
simple direct and honest way of just
like hey you've fallen down there what
do we need to do to make sure that this
doesn't happen again
that you could literally score people on
their belief ability and certain things
that there is a difference between a
meritocracy where the best idea wins and
a democracy where the most votes wins
and I literally once I read principles I
couldn't believe that I had just failed
to think big enough so that was a time
where yep an invisible belief had had
really had a profound and negative
consequence on my life I was mortified
to wake up to the truth of that but also
super [__] excited that Ray Dalio had
taken the time to write that book which
has changed everything about my life and
has certainly changed this company for
the better I think it's empowering I
think everybody should read it it is it
is from a business book perspective it
is the most important book I've ever
read there you go alright question from
Jeremy Stickney hi Tom my question is do
you think you can pull everyone out of
the matrix or pull a select few to
overcome the system I ask because the
way civilization is run is based on a
fixed mindset I just got done talking
about invisible beliefs here's the truth
though and it's probably an invisible
belief but I don't think that I can pull
everyone out of the matrix I'm not even
trying to pull everyone out of the
matrix so I'm looking to find people
that want out and help them out that's
the reality so I I feel
like and I could be wrong and Lord knows
I am open if someone can show me how I'm
wrong that would be amazing and not with
a [__] trite statement about you can
do anything you set your mind to which
I'm guilty of saying all the [__]
time but I try to back people up with
how you go about that so if someone can
show me how I could actually pull
everyone out of the matrix without
spending all of my time and energy on
the people who don't want out which
seems like a total catastrophic waste I
will change in an instant but right now
my belief is that that's impossible and
that my it is not impossible but a way
better allocation of my time and energy
into pulling the people out that want
out because there are so many of them
that don't know how to get out that it's
just way better to spend my time there
now if I am fortunate and we're able to
pull so many people out that I'm just
left looking for people that one out
that haven't already gotten out then
I'll start trying to figure out exactly
how to pull the people out who are
actively antagonistic I will say though
secretive secrets that's what I think
that the films are meant to do so I
believe in a multi-generational approach
of planting seeds so that ultimately
people just never end up in the matrix
so very different than thinking I can
pull everyone out my hope is I can keep
people from getting in but that takes a
multi-generational approach of creating
content that it forms people's belief
system that points out the invisible
belief so that people don't adopt them
so generation after generation fewer and
fewer people have a fixed mindset so
there you have it all right next
question is from Joshua T Tom in today's
age how necessary is a college education
and how does that justify the debt that
comes out of it okay so first of all it
entirely depends on what you want to do
so the success that I've had in my life
absolutely did not need to go to college
so if it's an industry we're simply
being better than everyone else is
enough then you don't need to go to
college however I think that there are
some people that college is wildly
beneficial for and I will put myself in
that category so while the degree has
not been necessary in my life in any way
shape or form what has been necessary in
my life is I was profoundly lazy I
needed people to expect things of me and
put deadlines on me for me to get the
momentum going that I needed to and
excuse me while I was in college I
really be
and to learn how to learn and that was
incredibly empowering and I developed
the systems how to in a shorter and
shorter period of time to really learn
and understand something it was also
very hands-on which showed me that I
learned really really well by doing that
was incredibly valuable for me
so school ended up being really really
valuable I walked away with $25,000 in
debt even though I was working multiple
jobs while I was in college to help pay
for my way and much love to my parents
for also helping me but I did walk away
with $25,000 in debt that took me more
than a decade to pay off but that was
worth it now if you told me that I was
gonna walk away eighty or a hundred
thousand dollars in debt absolutely
[__] not so that's crazy and you're
starting out behind the 8-ball in such a
profound way that it just I don't know
how you're ever gonna get out from under
that so but there are certain things
like being a lawyer and stuff if that is
your deepest passion then just know that
you may walk away with so much debt that
you have to become really incredible and
this is so interesting even to me as I'm
saying this out loud I'm saying to
myself well I would just become a lawyer
that was making if I owed $250,000 of
the law school then I would give myself
ten years to be making five million or
more annually as a lawyer and I would
[__] do it there's always a way man
there's always a way so the truth is I
can't even get to my own answer without
saying at the end of the day if it's
what you love and you're willing to set
tremendously big goals for yourself
there is a way to make the revenue to
make that back but it's scary and if it
were my kid and that they were they had
a choice I would not encourage them to
take on say north of 50k like 50k feels
about right it's gonna be brutal to burn
your way through that and I wouldn't and
it's all proportionate to what are you
pursuing like if if you had to take 50k
and you want to go be a teacher [__]
that that would be pure insanity your
life will be a financial misery so I
would say decide what you're gonna do
realistically what standard are you
gonna hold yourself to from a pay scale
perspective understanding that in a
normal 9 to 5 job you're gonna make what
the going rate is like even if you're
making 10 or 20% more than the going
rate for that like when how long would
it take you to pay off
your debt given a certain lifecycle or
lifestyle so this is a math question run
the math figure it out if you're super
young which I'm guessing you are then
work backwards from what do you want to
do does it require a degree how much
debt would you have to take on to get
that degree are you lazy do you need
people holding you accountable all of
that and figure out what you really need
to do and if you're willing to if your
entrepreneurial minded and you want to
get out there and try and start your own
business it will almost certainly fail
so let's be very honest about that but
the money that you will spend on that
like what you'll learn and that would be
incredibly just have to be open to the
truth all right next question is from
Sarah Bella what advice would you give
to the middle-aged people out there who
hit the who hit the ground bad feeling
lost and never achieved anything
meaningful
who feels time is up they are old and
don't know what to do in life how can
they decide what to do to achieve
greatness god I love this question okay
everybody man if you feel that you're
too old I want you to lean in right now
I'm gonna give you the [__] secret
you ready the only thing that matters is
your neurochemical state the game that
you are playing is not money
it is not success has nothing to do with
the choices that you've made up to this
point it has everything to do with your
neuro chemistry if you get your neuro
chemistry in the right place you will
feel good about your life right now
today and I will tell you that one of
the things that's going to change
everything for you is the word yet so
I'm not good at this yet I haven't done
anything extraordinary yet but you can
do it right now today so the word yet
hopefully relieves you of all that
pressure now and the pressure that I'm
speaking of is that whatever you've done
like let's say you're 55 let's say
you're 60 let's make this real [__]
tough you're 60 years old and you're
thinking I haven't done anything with my
life my life has been a waste let's say
that you've got five years left you're
gonna die in five years okay which I
think most people at sixty you're gonna
live another 30 or more years especially
given the state of medical science and
where it's headed but I'll just say
you're gonna live five now that may
inform what you do you're probably not
gonna go to law school but you've got
five years left to do something that
makes you proud and I will just tell you
in the last 12 months we've done
something with impact theory that I am
immeasurably proud of
and I've poured myself into creating
content that I think helps people's
lives that's 12 months
so what can you do with five years it
all comes down to acknowledging that
tomorrow isn't guaranteed for any of us
the only thing that matters is the neuro
chemistry what is it that you give a
[__] about and are you really going down
the path of gaining mastery when I
committed to trying to pull people out
of the matrix I was sincere about that
and I'm checking myself every day as to
whether or not I'm actually making
progress to that and in 12 months I've
had the best year of my life and the
best year of my life from a
neurochemical standpoint so what is it
that you want to do let's say you're
trapped in a job let's say you cannot
retire you can't get out you [__]
hate your job right now today let's say
you can't leave which is [__] by the
way but I'm just gonna grant you that
you've got some story that I can't
imagine where I'd actually go yeah
you're right you can't leave you can't
leave starting right now today let's say
you're on your lunch break and you're
watching this when you come back from
your lunch break to gain your brain
chemistry and get to a place where you
want to be what you're gonna say is
whatever my job is I'm gonna become the
greatest person of all time at my job
and I'm going to serve other people as I
do that so right now think about the
people you have this really [__]
antagonistic relationship with and it is
making your workday toxic you're going
to start getting so good at your job
you're gonna seek the truth you're gonna
be building your ego around something
anti fragile being the learner being
willing to admit when you're wrong and
you're going to get really good at your
job and you're gonna start helping those
people that you haven't antagonistic
relationship you're gonna find out how
you can do your job even better and help
them you're gonna serve those people
you're gonna serve the company you're
gonna be you're gonna tell people what
you're doing you're gonna say I have a
growth mindset as of right now today I'm
gonna be developing a growth mindset and
if you're sincerely on that path two
things are gonna happen one as you
develop a set of skills that serve other
people you will feel so [__] good
about yourself I cannot emphasize that
enough building a set of skills that is
unique to you was hard to you was hard
for you to do is in an arena that you
care about you find interesting
in doing that and then helping other
people you're gonna start to feel good
about yourself now if you can leave your
job even [__] easier cut your
expenses to the quick quit your job
figure out what you need
to live what's that wage start making
that wage and then quit your job you can
go to up work oDesk which doesn't exist
anymore it's called up work go somewhere
like that and do work on an outsourced
basis like there's so many ways to make
money now you just need to understand
what the absolute minimum is that you
need to make make that get out of your
toxic job and then focus on finding that
thing that is really gonna light you on
fire but it is just a game of neuro
chemistry it is not a game of money it
is not a game of legacy it's not about
trying to be remembered it's about in
the moment are you excited about what
you're doing and techne is the answer to
that so your age doesn't matter I could
have an aneurysm and die before I reach
the end of this Amma
so I operate in the friction between I'm
gonna live forever and I could die in
the next 30 seconds right so when you
find that friction do the things that
you're gonna enjoy the struggle do the
things that tap into the pleasures that
Nature has given us and one of the most
profound is getting good at something so
find that thing that you want to get
good at make progress in it that is
going to change your perception of your
life my fear is that you've got like I
didn't become President of the United
States and that's what's [__] you up
who cares about that don't worry about
legacy worry about brain chemistry all
right
next question is from business mastery
Academy a damn fine name and if your
parents named you that you're my hero or
they're my hero I guess technically Tom
how do you change when you're at a time
in your life when you're so weak and you
can't find the strength to even do the
simple things okay so first we need to
figure out if this is an intellectual
weakness or if this is a physical
weakness so I really believe that
mindset is in position three so first is
diet and exercise and the reason diet
and exercise in terms of having the
energy and the passion and all of that
the reason that those two things come
first is you need to optimize at a
biological level I don't want this to be
true this isn't fun or sexy to talk
about this is the truth so you've got to
optimize your physicality before you
need to start worrying about mindset and
the irony of ironies as you deal with
your body your mindset is gonna get to
where it needs to be because you're
gonna start earning credibility with
yourself because one of the simplest but
most difficult things you can do is show
up at the gym everyday and not eat a
bunch of sugar and carbohydrates
so if you start doing just those two
little things day after day after day
you're gonna feel really damn good about
yourself from a psychological
perspective but you're also going to
have more energy and the reason you're
gonna have more energy is because your
mitochondria are functioning better and
you're actually generating more ATP you
actually have more energy in your system
in order to be passionate in order to
develop your mind
so diet and exercise hard as hell
deadly simple in fact they're so simple
I would give them to you right now start
walking that's it walk a mile a day if
you're doing less than that already just
start walking a mile a day wear a Fitbit
get your you know whatever I'm not sure
if 10,000 steps equals a mile but they
say that sort of the minimum threshold
but I'll say do a mile if you're walking
a mile a day you're gonna love life do
that for a couple weeks and start
walking a mile and a quarter than a mile
and a half then two miles start doing
that every day and just cut out sugar
and carbs if you do that my friends your
life will transform you will be
unrecognizable even from an inflammation
standpoint your life will be so [__]
different you won't be able to see
straight it is absolute madness so give
it a shot those are simple not saying
they're easy but they are very very
simple
all right next up violet Christine and
this is from Facebook do you have
routines to short-circuit unproductive
emotions eg insecurity grief frustration
thinking about experimenting with tDCS
Oh Trent transcranial direct current
stimulation which I've heard as
electromagnetic transcranial stimulation
doesn't sound right but anyway that's
the idea but what do you do so first of
all if you do transcranial direct
current stimulation let me know how it
goes I'm not really fascinated by that
it comes down to turning areas of the
brain off which I find interesting for
instance people that think they can't
draw if you hit them with transcranial
magnetic stimulation TMS there it is if
you hit them with that then they can
draw better that's so [__] weird that
means that there's a part of your brain
that's actually stopping you from
drawing well so very very interesting
and I'd love to hear your thoughts on
that I've never done it
do I have routines Oh
short-circuit unproductive emotions
absolutely so a lot of this comes down
to your belief systems and what I call
the psychological pachenko machine so
I've got all these beliefs that you know
negative emotions and things have to
bump through the biggest one for me is
does this move me towards my goal
so does this emotion anger frustration
grief whatever move me towards my goal
if it does then I embrace it if it
doesn't that I don't so first of all the
cycles of grief you almost certainly do
need to process that grief so what I do
there is I get myself a timeline so if
I've gone through something that is
really traumatizing I'll give myself say
a week or ten days or a month whatever
it is but I would never give myself more
than a month ever I've not had my
parents die so I will say that right now
my arrogant self believes that I could
deal with in a month maybe I couldn't
but that's certainly the thing that has
worked for me with every traumatic
experience up to this point as I've gone
through and I've gone through some
pretty heinous ones every single one of
them has I've capped myself at 30 days
so that is I think very important to
have a time limit and then to remember
that you get what you focus on and this
is so right behind just having a time
limit this is the big one so if you
focus on the negativity you're gonna get
more negative things if you start
focusing on for instance with grief
asking how is this the best thing that
ever happened to me so let's say that
it's the death of a parent how is this
the best thing that ever happened to me
does it inspire me to live my life
differently does it inspire me to help
carry on the things that my parents
stood for does it inspire me to be a
better parent like what are those like
how is it actually a good thing how is
it going to bring something beautiful to
your life because the bad is going to be
there no matter what
so wallowing in that is just not going
to help you and that holds true for
everything I just used the parent
because it seems like the most extreme
example so how do you even people to get
paralyzed so for the first year
typically they find that people it's
really disruptive and emotionally
traumatizing but then a year later they
will actually say that it was the best
thing that ever happened to them that's
the psychological immune system at work
it's getting what you focus on it's
finding ways to really be empowered by
what happened even Stephen Hawking who's
completely lost the use of his body
except for a muscle in his cheek which
is crazy he says that it's the reason
that he's had the break
through some physics that he's had so
you get what you focus on so those are
two of the big ones all right next
question is from Cynthia Gutierrez from
Facebook what was the driving force and
getting you interested in neuroscience
can you offer a few websites authors and
research papers that you have found
enlighten your perspective absolutely
okay so first and foremost the thing
that got me interested in it was
realizing that I wanted to empower
myself that I wanted to get better that
I wanted to move towards my goals and
the things that were holding me back
were my mind so one my belief system and
then to my skillset and so I needed to
know how do humans acquire skills
neuroscience to how our belief system
built and how are they changed again
neuroscience so once I realized whoa my
brain is the thing that's creating this
world so and that brings us to the first
person that I encourage all of you to
read David Eagleman start with his book
incognito absolutely fascinating also as
a PBS show called the brain check it out
and what he said is the brain is encased
in total darkness in a bone box and from
this bone box it tries to recreate
through its mr. Potato Head input
devices of eyes ears nose touch all of
that tries to recreate the world but
light never actually reaches the brain
let that sink in for a minute
so it is taking electrochemical signals
and turning it into this world that you
think is so real it's creating this
sense of depth all of which is [__]
this is all happening in your brain once
I realized that that's when I realized
whoa my brain is making [__] up it's
lying to me maybe with the best of
intentions but nonetheless it's making
this stuff up so what is the reasoning
behind that how does that all work what
can i hijack what's hijacking me all of
that so that's why I got obsessed with
neuroscience Reed David Eagleman Reed vs
Ramachandran both by the way who've been
on impact theory and this is not a
shameless plug for impact Theory they
came on the show because they were the
people that really shaped my thinking
the most so those two will get you
started also watch their episodes both
of them are amazing the Moran Cerf
episode is also incredible he's another
neuroscientist check those three out
they will really get you started all
right how much time do we have left okay
so next question is from Kevin Olsen
this is on Facebook you've stated that
you only need a minimum of five hours
sleep and sexually not what I've stated
of the little research I've done it says
six hours minimum for our age group what
is the truth thank you for everything
you and your team do you've helped me so
much already that's amazing all right so
Kevin here's actually what I say so I
can get by on five to six hours sleep
that's my fantasy six is my magic number
if I get six hours of sleep I'm golden I
don't have any sense of fatigue if I get
five hours one night I'm fine I can
actually sometimes get away with a four
hour night's sleep but if I get five
consistently I start getting really
tired so it may take me a week but
eventually I start like if I'm not if
I'm at five hours even consistently if
I'm really engaged intellectually I
don't have any sense of fatigue but the
second I'm not intellectually engaged I
start falling asleep if I've gotten five
hours let's say for more than four or
five nights in a row it's super weird I
once was getting my hair cut and I was
like wow so you can imagine that's bad
to be falling asleep during your haircut
so five hours is not the magic number
for me six is the magic number
I love punctuating a bunch of sixes with
a five here and there because then I
still don't experience fatigue and I
like to get as little sleep as I need
but I prioritize sleep and I want people
to hear that my wife sleeps eight to
nine hours a night so and that's exactly
what she should do if that's how much
sleep she needs she should get it
sleep is a good thing sleep helps you
optimize cognitively and optimizing
cognitively for me at the end of the day
is the single most important thing you
could do so if I needed nine hours of
sleep I would get it so I don't set an
alarm to be very clear when I wake up at
six hours I just wake up so that isn't
me trying to sleep only six hours all
right next question is from Christian
Thomas Facebook when you switch to the
mindset of a learner was it an
instantaneous transition or did you take
specific steps over time to grow into
that mindset so it's the one realization
that I will say was an epiphany meaning
it felt like it came out of nowhere and
I realized in a bolt of lightning how
true it was and that I needed to make an
immediate lasting change but I did find
myself slipping back all the time all
the time even now I have to laugh at
myself at how [__] awesome it feels
to be right that's just the truth being
right still feels amazing now being
willing to admit when I'm wrong feels
equally amazing but even in
understanding how dangerous it is to
love the feeling of being right let's
all admit being right is awesome so
that's just the truth so yeah you have
to be very careful and in the beginning
it was ridiculous I was constantly
sliding about constantly constantly
constantly but at least I was catching
myself and I was doing it so it's a
process all this stuff is rewiring your
brain and creating a network of
positivity does not happen overnight but
the decision to begin down that process
does happen overnight the the decision
to begin is not a process okay that
should a binary you're either doing it
or you're not and that's one area that
people frustrate the [__] out of me is
when they act like the decision when
they act like the decision isn't binary
that drives me crazy
you don't need 20 years to decide to
begin the process you just begin the
process right now okay next step
Katherine Benedict was that like a
double from her or am I going crazy
anyway Katherine Benedict I'm a teacher
both high school and fitness how do I
create a sense of empowerment in the
students I teach how do I create group
exercises of flow I'm entirely the wrong
person to answer that question but may I
point you in the direction of the people
at the flow genome god we were just
talking how am i blanking on this man's
name I love this guy Jamie Weil Thank
You Jamie fly to my house and punch me
in the mouth right now I love you to
bits and pieces I can't believe I
blanked in your name that's [__]
yeah sorry I know people hate that word
so Jamie wheel is the guy behind the
flow Genome Project he knows all about
flow go after that how do you create a
sense of empowerment and students I
teach leading by example to growth
mindset is really the right way I'm not
being afraid to admit when you're wrong
introducing them to the word yet
especially when it comes to the physical
fitness side you can really show them
like for instance I remember in school
they in PE and middle school they had us
do a pull-up which I remember when I try
to pull up I actually thought they were
joking and because my name is B I was
one of the first people to do it so
everybody before me couldn't do it
couldn't do it got to me that's partly
the third or fourth person couldn't do
it and couldn't even begin to do it and
so I actually thought pull-ups aren't
possible like why are we doing this
that's legitimately how it felt so you
can imagine
my surprise when Christian Russell ended
up going and doing like 22 pull-ups even
though he'd never done a pull-up before
in his life and I was like what just
happened
so then they test you again at the end
of the semester but never once in
between did they have us practice doing
pull-ups or trained to do pull-ups so
you're literally like what did they
expect to change so if you test them on
a pull-up at the beginning in the end
the middle of the semester better be all
about how you get to the point where you
can do not only one but ten or twenty or
however many pull-ups so that then it
becomes about how much work that they
put in to do that that would be an
amazing reinforcer of how you can grow
and get better at something which is the
ultimate empowerment so they have it all
right this is probably gonna be the last
one you'll each oh hey Tom how do we
ensure that the next generation of kids
will think outside the box if they will
be following the system in which we're
in right now so first and foremost the
two things that really have the biggest
influence on how somebody thinks is
their parents and where they grow up so
you've got a massive impact on your kids
so teaching them showing them leading by
example reinforcing reinforcing
reinforcing them how we get better at
something also play this content for
them long may it serve them so getting
them to think in a certain way that is
absolutely critical introducing it to
them early children's books Jaakko
willing wrote a children's books oh man
I haven't read it so I can't vouch for
it but something tells me that it's
going to be all about extreme ownership
so I would definitely look into that
getting them in a martial art could be
amazing but at the end of the day just
reinforcing them over and over and over
that they can get good at something
through a process learning getting
better than just because you start bad
as something does not mean that you're
gonna end up that way the humans are the
ultimate adaptation machine they can get
good at anything that they're willing to
put the time and energy and effort into
and just because somebody else gets
better at it faster does not mean that
they can't get good at it it doesn't
even mean that they can't become the
greatest in the world at it it just may
take more effort and energy on their
part all right
that's gonna do it for today thank you
guys so much for joining me as always it
is an honor to be on here and to answer
your questions thank you so much for
submitting them dig the shirt go to shop
that impact Theory com we've got not
only the shirt that I'm wearing today
everything is my fault we've got a whole
bunch of self signaling empowering ideas
for you to swaddle your body in and
remind you of the person that you're
trying to become and until then my
friends be legendary
take care
[Music]
[Applause]
you